when bench-pressing there's a huge
difference between a natural arc and a
forced arc a four start is when you
intentionally arch your lower back to
decreased range of motion
okay so there's not any tightness
established you're just arching your
lower back because you want to be a big
shot and you want to lift more weights
that's just not good you're just gonna
end up putting it behind for no reason
on the other hand a natural arc it's far
different okay the reason why your test
elevates it's not because you're
squeezing your lower back muscles it's
because of the fact that just squeezing
your glutes you're pressing your heels
tied into the ground and you're
retracting the scapula the combination
of those three things is what caused
your chest elevate the chest elevation
is not the goal the chest elevation is
simply a side effect because that's what
happens when you get tight okay when you
don't get tight pressing off a shitty
base and you're gonna get injured a
natural arc which is what I'll refer to
as a power bench is not the same thing
if you stand up right now and you
squeeze your glutes you'll notice
squeeze your glutes your body's gonna
naturally come this way okay it's not
because I'm arching my lower back
arching your lower back will just be
this this is arching lower back it's the
difference between this shit and just
squeezing the glutes there's a big
difference and when you squeeze the
scapula so when you squeeze the sky club
and you squeeze the glutes now you have
the crease range of motion there's a
difference between ax hip and just
arching your lower back I think you
could immediately see the difference
even though I don't have a fucking
barbell with me okay one is good the
other isn't and I also want to
understand that the range of motion
decrease is not the goal okay I feel
like six foot five okay and you even
though you're tight you're squeezing the
scapula you're squeezing the glutes but
you still don't have your chest super
elevated that's not a big problem what
matters is that you are tight if you are
tight then you are bench pressing
properly if you're not tight a to ages
arching your lower back but your tackle
is not retracted so your shoulders are
up here and you're not driving heels
into the ground and that's not good
even though the range of motion is
decreased you're not tight and that's
where the injuries come from that's
where you lose strength so when some
there's a big difference between a
natural arc versus a forest
arc okay
natural arc you squeezing the glutes
you're driving heels into the ground and
you're retracting the scapula which
automatically elevates your chest and a
fourth stock you're just arching lower
back for the sake of oxygen
don't do it